RISE_2024 Language & Communication Assessment 1
Required
Reading
Read the statement or passage and then choose the best answer to the question. Answer the question
based on what is stated or implied in the statement or passage.

4.Passage 1- In the words of Thomas De Quincey, "The memory that strengthens as you lay burden upon it." If like most people, you have trouble recalling names of those you have just met, try this: "The next time you are introduced, plan to remember the names. Say to yourself, "I will listen carefully; I will repeat each person's name to be sure I have got it, and I will remember." You will discover how effective this technique is and probably recall those names for the rest of your life. 
The main idea of the paragraph maintains that the memory
(2 Points)

always operates at peak efficiency.

breaks down under great strain.

The more we use our memory, the better it gets.

becomes unreliable if it tires.

5.Passage 2- Many people have owned, or have heard of, traditional “piggy banks,” coin banks shaped like pigs. A logical theory about how this tradition started might be that because pigs often symbolize greed, the object is to “fatten” one’s piggy bank with as much money as possible. However, while this idea makes sense, it is not the correct origin of the term. The genesis of the piggy bank is the old English word “pygg,” which was a common kind of clay hundreds of years ago in England. People used pots and jars made out of this red “pygg” clay for many different purposes in their homes. Sometimes they kept their money in one of the pots, and this was known as a pygg bank. Over the years, because “pygg” and “pig” sounded the same, glaziers began making novelty banks out of pottery in the shape of a pig as a kind of joke. These banks were given as gifts and exported to countries where people spoke other languages and where no one had ever heard of pygg clay. The tradition caught on all over the world, and today piggy banks come in all colors and are made of all kinds of materials, including plastic.
This passage is mainly about?
(2 Points)

how people in different countries save their money

how people in England made pottery centuries ago

how a common expression began in a surprising way

how an unusual custom got started

6.Passage 3- Wheel is considered as one of the most important mechanical inventions of all times. Many technologies since the invention of the wheels have been based on its principles, and since the industrial revolution, the wheel has begun a basic element of nearly every machine constructed by humankind. No one knows the exact time and place  of the invention of the wheel, but its beginning can be seen across many ancient civilizations. 
According to this passage, the wheel is an important invention because
(2 Points)

it is one of the world’s oldest inventions

it forms the basis of so many later inventions

it is an invention that can be traced to many cultures

it is one the world’s most famous inventions

7.The team practiced hard every day. They are confident about winning the game.
Does the pronoun "They" agree with the subject "The team"?
(1 Point)

Yes

No
8.Which sentence uses the tenses most consistently?
(1 Point)

Yesterday, I went to the store and I bought some milk.

Yesterday, I went to the store, but today I will buy some milk.

I go to the store every week and buy some milk.
9.Choose the right verb: She ___________ to Europe every summer before the pandemic.
(1 Point)

travelled

travels
10.The news _____ always interesting to watch.
(1 Point)

is

are

11.The children _____ playing outside when the rain started.
(1 Point)

were

be

was

12.Identify the complete sentence:
(1 Point)

Running in the park.

Although the rain poured.

Exhausted after the race.

The runners crossed the finish line.

13.You are at a party and meet someone new. You want to introduce yourself and your friend. How would you introduce?
(2 Points)
Hi, This is Ali and this is my friend Het. Pleasure to meet you. This party is amazing. Would you like to join our group it would be fun.

14.Which of these is not a word or phrase?
(1 Point)

a lot

alot

15.Fill in the blank. “Bad weather can ________ people’s ability to work.”
(1 Point)

affect

effect

16.If someone says “I’m sorry,” you can _______ their apology.
(1 Point)

except

accept

17.Fill in the blank. “_____ so hot outside!!”
(1 Point)

It's

Its

18.Who is the person in charge at a high school?
(1 Point)

Principle

Principal

19.Which of these words means “to praise someone”?
(1 Point)

Compliment

Complement

20.When your team doesn’t win the game, they most definitely…
(1 Point)

loose

lose

21.Describe a challenging situation you faced and how you communicated effectively to resolve it.
(4 Points)
The challenge I faced was to not understand the task given by faculty and I asked the faculty to explain it in more detail and that's how I managed to solve the issue.

22.Talk about a time when your experienced a technical problem in one of the product you purchased and how you connected with the customer service representative.
(5 Points)
I experiencing a problem with my Macbook Pro as it was not turning on and I connected with the customer service representative by showing them the laptop and informing that the laptop's battery is not working.
